Move context utils outside of the Tracer (#527)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification: specification/api-tracing.md

## Tracer

> The `Tracer` main responsibility it to allow creating `Spans`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Tracer`'s main responsibility it to allow creating `Spans`.
```

- Create a new `Span`

When creating a new `Span`, the `Tracer` MUST allow the caller to specify the
new `Span`'s parent in the form of a `Span` or `SpanContext`. The `Tracer`
SHOULD create each new `Span` as a child of its active `Span` unless an
explicit parent is provided or the option to create a span without a parent is
selected, or the current active `Span` is invalid.

> The `Tracer` MAY provide convenience functions to manage a `Span`'s lifetime.

Reviewer: Do we need this? The term "lifetime" is ambiguous - start/finish are the lifetime events.

Author: This was there before "and MAY provide convenience functions to manage a `Span`'s lifetime". I would change that in a separate PR but would not do it in this one.

Reviewer 2: I think this is something @tsloughter latest PR had something related, so I'd also suggest do that in a separate PR.

However, alternative implementations MUST NOT allow callers to create `Span`s
directly. All `Span`s MUST be created via a `Tracer`.

### Span Context Interaction

The OpenTelemetry library achieves in-process context propagation of `Span`s by
way of the [Context](./context.md).

> 

Reviewer: Please introduce the meaning of "active span" first before using it.

Author: Done.

Tracing API is responsible to provide functionality to track the currently
active Span, and exposes functionality to activate new Spans. The API MAY
provide default Propagators which support transferring span context across
process boundaries.

The API MUST provide methods to (depending on the language, global functions

> or util class e.g. `TracingContextUtils`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The API MUST provide methods (or, depending on the language, global functions
or util class e.g. `TracingContextUtils`) to:
```

Reviewer: also s/TracingContextUtils/TracingContext/

Author: I think we need something as suffix or prefix if we want to be consistent for CorrelationContext which has `Context` at the end, because will be ugly to name that `CorrelationContextContext` :(. Any ideas?

Reviewer: If context interaction is done via static util class, then `TracingContext.activeSpan()` looks a lot better than `TracingContextUtils.activeSpan()`.

Author: I do agree with you but I am trying to think how would I name this class for "CorrelationContext" package. If I find a good name for that and ensure consistency I am all to remove `Utils`.

Reviewer: CorrelationContext can remain CorrelationContext. It can represent both the object that stores correlations and the namespace for static functions.

Reviewer 2: @yurishkuro I'd be up for not using `TraceContext` and keeping the activation bits in `CorrelationContext` - we will end up with too many classes having the `Context` suffix (some of them doing different things, i.e. `TraceContext` doing activation handling only, `CorrelationContext` doing both activation handling PLUS as a container of key-values).

There was already some confusion in the past because of the fact we had both `CorrelationContext` and `Context`, so this could get worse ;)

* Get the currently active Span
* Make a given Span as active

The API MUST internally leverage the Context in order to get and set the current
Span state and how Spans are passed across process boundaries.

When getting the current span, the API MUST return a placeholder Span with an
invalid SpanContext if there is no currently active Span.

> When an active Span is made inactive, the previously-active Span SHOULD be made

Reviewer: There is no API in Tracing to make a span inactive. The "previously-active Span" behavior is achieved by the Context API.

Author: Correct this is the Context API behavior.

However, alternative implementations MUST NOT allow callers to create `Span`s
directly. All `Span`s MUST be created via a `Tracer`.

### Span Context Interaction

The OpenTelemetry library achieves in-process context propagation of `Span`s by
way of the [Context](./context.md).

> An `active Span` referes to a Span that is set to an

Reviewer 3: That means, for other languages (e.g. Go) all Spans are inactive?

Author: that means there is no concept of `active span`. The current span is defined as the Span in the context passed to the function so no need to getCurrentSpan just getSpanFromContext.

Reviewer: I would suggest:
  * having a clear definition of "current" in the context.md, which can be defined both for implicit prop and explicit prop (closes context in the lexical scope)
  * converge on a single term for spans, either "active" or "current", not both, and define it as "span stored in the _current_ context"

Reviewer 2: @yurishkuro I agree on keeping either current or active, not both terms. However, I'm wondering if this should be done in a follow up PR.

Reviewer 4: @carlosalberto I agree but this PR adds wording using both terms, at least within the PR it should be consistent.

Author: This PR does not add any new reference to either active or current, both were in the previous text.

[Attached Context](./context.md#attach-context). This applies only to languages
using `Context` implicitly.

Tracing API is responsible to provide functionality to track the currently
active Span, and exposes functionality to activate new Spans. The API MAY
provide default Propagators which support transferring span context across
process boundaries.

The API MUST provide methods (or, depending on the language, global functions
or util class e.g. `TracingContextUtils`) to:

* Get the currently active Span
* Get/Set a Span from/to a Context

> * Make a given Span as active

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Make a given Span active
```
(or Activate a given span)

> The API MUST internally leverage the Context in order to get and set the current

Reviewer 5: This sounds like logic is going into the API? Before the API was almost entirely interfaces.

Unless I'm misunderstanding this it seems instead of the Tracer simply calling to the sdk with a context and some options to start a span there is log in the API for juggling the span in the context, resulting in multiple calls from the API to the SDK?

How does this work out for the streaming SDK for example?

Reviewer 6: It was my understanding that the API should _never_ call the SDK and cannot depend on it. Otherwise it would be impossible to have third party SDKs

Reviewer 5: The API is functions/methods that are implemented by the SDK, calling API functions results in whatever SDK is being used (if any) being called. Users do not call the SDK directly.

Reviewer 6: @tsloughter As far as I'm aware, Context is not a part of the SDK but a third top-level item that the API and SDK depend on.

> Span state and how Spans are passed across process boundaries.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Span and for passing Spans across process boundaries.
```

Reviewer 4: Did you intend to say _across_ process boundaries or should it rather be _within_ process boundaries?
